Our objective for this project was to design a system for our new client, DriverPass. Their concept is to develop a secure online platform for student drivers. Students can take online classes, simulated practice tests, and schedule an over-the-road driving lesson, after purchasing a membership package. The goal is to increase student success rates when taking their state’s department of motor vehicle licensing exam so that more students can achieve their personal goal of obtaining a valid driver’s license.  

The system is especially adept at tracking and organizing DriverPass operations and activities including revenue and vehicle assignments. However, if I were to make any improvements to the system, then it would be to add a support ticket system to ensure proper handling of maintenance issues. 

Most users will be students, and DriverPass addresses their needs by making assistance available to students via the secretary. The secretary can create accounts, explain packages, complete membership purchases, and schedule appointments. This is beneficial for customer conversion and returning customer satisfaction. For the designer contribution, I prioritized the users’ need to track their own progress via the performance dashboard, and to do so at any time of any day. Accessibility is important to students. Also, by keeping the latency low, the system promotes higher usage and more student referrals. Thus, subscribers increase. 

My approach to software design is to begin with effective listening and keen observing in order to establish and understand the business rules and requirements. This begins an iterative process that supports a fastidious attention to detail, allowing me to create diagrams and further refine my design until it meets or exceeds the clients’ objectives. Going forward, I will employ the use of UML (Unified Modeling Language) diagramming in its various forms as a basis for my designs. Object-oriented principles such as encapsulation and inheritance will demonstrate the technical competence and professionalism of the design. Further, I will utilize the client’s SOP (Standard Operating Procedures) to create process and object models which can be decomposed and understood for the procedural design. I will then, iteratively, improve upon those models until the proper comprehensive design is achieved.  
